
h1. cl-simple-table - A Common Lisp simple in-memory table.

*cl-simple-table* is a set of functions to create rows and tables of rows and run some queries in them. Also included are simple functions to create tables from tabular data files, such as _CSV_ (comma separated values) or _TSV_ (tab separated values). This makes this library very useful to work with these files.

Internally, tables are just arrays of arrays (not multidimensional, actual array of arrays) although simple wrappers functions are provided to keep the context inside the problem space, you care about tabular data, not arrays.

h2. Dependencies

None.

h2. Usage

h3. @(make-table ())@

Creates a new empty table and returns it.

Example:

bc. CL-USER> (simple-table:make-table)
#()

h3. @(make-row ())@

Creates a new empty table and returns it.

Example:

bc. CL-USER> (simple-table:make-row)
#()

h3. @(add-to-row (value row))@

Appends the value as a new column in the given row and returns the row.

Example:

bc. CL-USER> (simple-table:add-to-row "Hello" (simple-table:make-row))
#("Hello")
CL-USER> (simple-table:add-to-row
          ", world!"
          (simple-table:add-to-row "Hello" (simple-table:make-row)))
#("Hello" ", world!")

h3. @(add-to-table (row table))@

Appends the row to the table and returns the table.

Example:

bc.CL-USER> (simple-table:add-to-table
             (simple-table:add-to-row "Hello" (simple-table:make-row))
             (simple-table:make-table))
#(#("Hello"))

h2. Final remarks

I hope this code is useful to you in any sense, either for learning, reading or maybe actual practical use, I will be very glad if you can even modify it to suit your needs. If you have suggestions please send them my way. Be sure to read *COPYING* file as well.
